EnvyMud release 1.0
Thursday 30th June 1994

Kahn		michael@uclink.berkeley.edu
Thelonius	dave@mechatro2.berkeley.edu
Kith		kith@marble.bu.edu
Hatchet		hatchet@uclink.berkeley.edu



=== Platforms

--- Envy 1.0

These platforms have been directly ported:

	Sequent		S81	Dynix		-Use Standard Makefile
	DEC		5900	Ultrix V4.3A	-Use Standard Makefile
	IBM		RS/6000	Aix		-Use Makefile.aix
	HP		9000	Hp/UX		-Use Makefile.hp
	Any IRIX Machine	IRIX 5.1.1.2	-Use Makefile.irx
	Tektronix	xd88s	utek 3.2e	-Use Makefile.tek
	Sequent		sysv			-Use Makefile.sys

These have not been tested for the Envy 1.0 release:

	Mips		R4000	Risc/OS 5.XX    -Use Makefile.mip
	NeXT		68040	Ultrix		-Use Makefile.nex
	Sparc		10	Solaris 2.1	-Use Makefile.sol

If you have gcc on your system, it would be best to try the standard Makefile
first.  If you have cc on your system, it would be best to try the standard
Makefile with gcc replaced with cc.

We are simply unable to test Envy on every platform.  Typically a user tries
a new platform, gets a file full of warnings, and mails us the warnings.
We fix the base code; on the next release we ask that users mail us the
new warnings (usually we never hear from the user again).



=== Requirements

The hardware requirements are essentially: two megabytes of memory; five
megabytes of disk space; any 32-bit processor; 50 kilobits per second network
bandwidth.  Processor speed is not important.

The software requirements are essentially: a C compiler; a Unix or
Unix-like operating system; BSD-compatible TCP/IP networking.

Envy uses 32-bit integers and is casual about the distinction between 'int' and
'long'.  (It is possible to clean up the code to run with 16-bit integers, but
the demand is nonexistent, and we don't have any 16-bit C compilers with which
to test.)  If you are running on a personal computer, make sure your C compiler
is giving you 32-bit integers and not running in 16-bit mode.

Area files, player files, the note file, and the bugs/ideas/typo files are all
in ASCII format, so that they may be freely moved from one machine type to
another.



=== MSDOS Single-User Version

Merc runs in single-user mode (console only) on MSDOS and Macintosh computers.
The MSDOS version is built with DJ Delorie's 'djgpp' port of the Gnu C Compiler
and requires a 386 with 2 megabytes of memory (djgpp has demand-paged virtual
memory).  You can ftp 'djgpp' from grape.ecs.clarkson.edu.

The commands to build and run Envy on MSDOS are:

	gcc -O -Wall -c *.c
	gcc -O -o merc *.o
	go32 merc



=== Macintosh Single-User Version

The Macintosh changes were contributed by Oleg Etiffin.  It is built with
Think-C 5.0.4 and requires 4 megabytes of system memory.  You have to define
the symbol 'macintosh' (if not already defined).



=== Performance

All this measured on a DEC 5900 with Ultrix V4.3A

Boot time:    11 CPU seconds.
Memory:       5040 bytes SZ size.
CPU usage:    2.5 CPU minutes per hour + 1-2 CPU seconds per player.
Disk space:   6 megabytes plus 10K per player file.
IP packets:   about 10 per second with 20 people logged in.
