UNNOFICIAL Zen's EnvyMud patch Release 0.85! (HomeCooked Envy2.2)
Monday, 14th July 1997

Zen             vasc@camoes.rnl.ist.utl.pt


=== What's next?

I might finish and include these features in the next patch to EnvyMud.
These features are by NO MEANS guaranteed to be coded. You might notice most of
the ideas aren't highly original. You see, my mind is usually useless at having
ideas for what to do, if i don't have a goal :-)


		Add value5 field to objects?

		Increase number of mortal levels to 60?

		Now we have OLC the time is right to change the area format
		while keeping compatibility with old areas (you will lose
		some of the new format's features but that's life!).

		Add pose table to class files

                A new class different from the others (no Paladins please)!
		( ideas desperately needed, my mind is void... )

                Even more spells, even more skills.

                Traps (discussed in the Merc mailing list)

                Different damage types (FIRE, WATER, etc) like in ROM/SMAUG.
                ( Should be VERY painful to add to Envy2.2 code :-( *sig* )

                Different "schools and spheres of knowledge" like in OBLIVION.
                ( Not so painful to add but also very tiresome )

                Improved clans code ( The one now is very crap. I made it :) )

		Command History ( VERY nice )

		Add a couple more immskills ( never can have enough :-) )

		Bulletin Boards (like SMAUG's)

		Improved auction (like Erwin's idea)

		Online editing of classes & socials (save routine already made)

		Enhance Mobprograms to make them more like Mudprograms in SMAUG

		RFC 1413 protocol use: well, SMAUG and Mordor feature this, so
		it should be fairly simple to slam it in Envy2.2
		Of course my knowledge of networking protocols is near zero
		:-) But hey! The old art of cut & paste usually works... With
		a few dozens of modifications...
		There is some info on RFC protocols on:
			http://wuarchive.wustl.edu

I guess you are seeing SMAUG mentioned here loads of times huh? It's that it's
just soo nice... But i like more the feel of Envy you know... Maybe i'm just
plain nut or something. Toric (Derek Snider) has done a wonderful job on SMAUG.
I generally feel like Envy is more user friendly, and has cleaner, but sometimes
slower code. And i have made it even slower! Much slower! Muhahahah... :-)
Just kidding... It's not as slow as that. Booting takes +2 seconds or so. Guess
i'm being ultra picky.

- Zen
